Central Government Act

The North- Eastern Council (Amendment) Act,   2002

























 1.  Short title and commencement.- (1)  This Act may be called the North- Eastern Council (Amendment) Act,  2002 .  (2)  It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint. 

1.

 (1)  This Act may be called the North- Eastern Council (Amendment) Act,  2002 .

(1)

 (2)  It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

(2)

 2.  Amendment of section 2.- In section 2 of the North- Eastern Council Act,  1971  (84 of  1971  ) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in clause (b), for the words" Nagaland and Tripura", the words" Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura" shall be substituted

2.

 3.  Amendment of section 3.- In section 3 of the principal Act,- (a)  for sub- section (1), the following sub- section shall be substituted, namely:-" (1) There shall be a Council to be called the North- Eastern Council which shall consist of the following members, namely:- (i)  the person or persons for the time being holding the office of the Governor of the States;  (ii)  the Chief Ministers of the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura: Provided that, if there is no Council of Ministers in any State referred to in clause (b), the President may nominate not more than one person to represent such State in the Council for so long as there is no Council of Ministers in such State;  (iii)  three members to be nominated by the President.";   (b)  for sub- section (3), the following sub- section shall be substituted, namely:-" (3) the President shall nominate the Chairman of the Council.". 

3.

 (a)  for sub- section (1), the following sub- section shall be substituted, namely:-" (1) There shall be a Council to be called the North- Eastern Council which shall consist of the following members, namely:- (i)  the person or persons for the time being holding the office of the Governor of the States;  (ii)  the Chief Ministers of the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura: Provided that, if there is no Council of Ministers in any State referred to in clause (b), the President may nominate not more than one person to represent such State in the Council for so long as there is no Council of Ministers in such State;  (iii)  three members to be nominated by the President."; 

(a)

 (i)  the person or persons for the time being holding the office of the Governor of the States;

(i)

 (ii)  the Chief Ministers of the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura: Provided that, if there is no Council of Ministers in any State referred to in clause (b), the President may nominate not more than one person to represent such State in the Council for so long as there is no Council of Ministers in such State;

(ii)

 (iii)  three members to be nominated by the President.";

(iii)

 (b)  for sub- section (3), the following sub- section shall be substituted, namely:-" (3) the President shall nominate the Chairman of the Council.".

(b)

 4.  Amendment of section 4.- In section 4 of the principal Act,- (a)  for sub- sections (1) and (2), the following sub- sections shall be substituted, namely:-" (1) The Council shall function as a regional planning body for the north- eastern area. (2)  While formulating the regional plans for the north- eastern area, the Council shall give priority to schemes and projects which will benefit two or more States: Provided that in case of Sikkim, the Council shall formulate specific projects and schemes for that State including the review of implementation of such projects and schemes.";   (b)  in sub- section (3), clause (c) shall be omitted;  (c)  after sub- section (4), the following sub- section shall be inserted, namely:-" (5) The Council shall have such power as may be delegated to it by the Central Government.". 

4.

 (a)  for sub- sections (1) and (2), the following sub- sections shall be substituted, namely:-" (1) The Council shall function as a regional planning body for the north- eastern area. (2)  While formulating the regional plans for the north- eastern area, the Council shall give priority to schemes and projects which will benefit two or more States: Provided that in case of Sikkim, the Council shall formulate specific projects and schemes for that State including the review of implementation of such projects and schemes."; 

(a)

 (2)  While formulating the regional plans for the north- eastern area, the Council shall give priority to schemes and projects which will benefit two or more States: Provided that in case of Sikkim, the Council shall formulate specific projects and schemes for that State including the review of implementation of such projects and schemes.";

(2)

 (b)  in sub- section (3), clause (c) shall be omitted;

(b)

 (c)  after sub- section (4), the following sub- section shall be inserted, namely:-" (5) The Council shall have such power as may be delegated to it by the Central Government.".

(c)

 5.  Amendment of section 5.- In section 5 of the principal Act, in sub- section 1, for the words" The Council shall meet at such times", the words" The Council shall meet at least twice in a year at such times" shall be substituted.

5.

 6.  Amendment of section 6.- In section 6 of the principal Act, for the words" and Planning", the words" Planning and the Department of Development of North- Eastern Region" shall be substituted. ---- SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

6.

