Central Government Act

Section 6 in The State Financial Corporations (Amendment) Act,   2000

 6.  Insertion of new section 4D.- After section 4C of the principal Act, the following sections shall be inserted, namely:-" 4D. Issue of redeemable preference shares.- (1) On and after the commencement of the State Financial Corporations (Amendment) Act,  2000 , the Financial Corporation may- (a)  issue redeemable preference shares on such terms and in such manner as the Board may decide; and  (b)  convert, such number of equity shares as it may decide into redeemable preference shares, with the prior approval of the State Government and the Small Industries Bank, by a resolution passed in the general meeting of the shareholders: Provided that such conversion shall in no case reduce the equity shares held by the parties referred to in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub- section (3) of section 4 to less than fifty- one per cent. of the issued equity capital of the Financial Corporation (2)  The redeemable preference shares referred to in sub- section (1) shall- (a)  carry such fixed rate of dividend as the Financial Corporation may specify at the time of such issue or conversion; and  (b)  neither be transferable nor carry any voting rights.   (3)  The redeemable preference shares referred to in sub- section (1) shall be redeemed by the Financial Corporation in such instalments and in such manner as the Board may determine.  

 (a)  issue redeemable preference shares on such terms and in such manner as the Board may decide; and

(a)

 (b)  convert, such number of equity shares as it may decide into redeemable preference shares, with the prior approval of the State Government and the Small Industries Bank, by a resolution passed in the general meeting of the shareholders: Provided that such conversion shall in no case reduce the equity shares held by the parties referred to in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub- section (3) of section 4 to less than fifty- one per cent. of the issued equity capital of the Financial Corporation (2)  The redeemable preference shares referred to in sub- section (1) shall- (a)  carry such fixed rate of dividend as the Financial Corporation may specify at the time of such issue or conversion; and  (b)  neither be transferable nor carry any voting rights.   (3)  The redeemable preference shares referred to in sub- section (1) shall be redeemed by the Financial Corporation in such instalments and in such manner as the Board may determine. 

(b)

 (2)  The redeemable preference shares referred to in sub- section (1) shall- (a)  carry such fixed rate of dividend as the Financial Corporation may specify at the time of such issue or conversion; and  (b)  neither be transferable nor carry any voting rights. 

(2)

 (a)  carry such fixed rate of dividend as the Financial Corporation may specify at the time of such issue or conversion; and

(a)

 (b)  neither be transferable nor carry any voting rights.

(b)

 (3)  The redeemable preference shares referred to in sub- section (1) shall be redeemed by the Financial Corporation in such instalments and in such manner as the Board may determine.

(3)

