Central Government Act

Section 10FQ in The Companies (Second Amendment) Act,   2002

 10FQ.  Appeal from order of Tribunal.- (1)  Any person aggrieved by an order or decision of the Tribunal may prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.  (2)  No appeal shall lie to the Appellate Tribunal from an order or decision made by the Tribunal with the consent of parties.  (3)  Every appeal under sub- section (1) shall be filed within a period of forty- five days from the date on which a copy of the order or decision made by the Tribunal is received by the appellant and it shall be in such form and accompanied by such fee as ay be prescribed: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of forty- five days from the date aforesaid if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from not filing the appeal in time.  (4)  On receipt of an appeal preferred under sub- section (1), the Appellate Tribunal shall, after giving parties to the appeal, an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appe led against.  (5)  The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it to the Tribunal and parties to the appeal.  (6)  The appeal filed before the Appellate Tribunal under sub- section (1) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made by it to dispose of the appeal finally within six months from the date of the receipt of the appea. 

 (1)  Any person aggrieved by an order or decision of the Tribunal may prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.

(1)

 (2)  No appeal shall lie to the Appellate Tribunal from an order or decision made by the Tribunal with the consent of parties.

(2)

 (3)  Every appeal under sub- section (1) shall be filed within a period of forty- five days from the date on which a copy of the order or decision made by the Tribunal is received by the appellant and it shall be in such form and accompanied by such fee as ay be prescribed: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of forty- five days from the date aforesaid if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from not filing the appeal in time.

(3)

 (4)  On receipt of an appeal preferred under sub- section (1), the Appellate Tribunal shall, after giving parties to the appeal, an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appe led against.

(4)

 (5)  The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it to the Tribunal and parties to the appeal.

(5)

 (6)  The appeal filed before the Appellate Tribunal under sub- section (1) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made by it to dispose of the appeal finally within six months from the date of the receipt of the appea.

(6)

