Central Government Act

Section 11 in The Registration And Other Related Laws (Amendment) Act,   2001

 11.  Amendment of Schedule I of Act 2 of  1899  .- In Schedule I to the Indian Stamp Act,  1899  ,- (a)  under column heading" Description of Instrument", in article No. 23, in Exemption, the portion beginning with the words" Assignment of Copyright" and ending with the word and figure" section 5." shall be numbered as clause (a) thereof, and after clau e (a) as so numbered, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-" (b) for the purpose of this article, the portion of duty paid in respect of a document falling under article No. 23A shall be excluded while computing the duty payable in respect of a corresponding document relating to the completion of the transaction n any union territory under this article.";  (b)  after article No. 23 and the entries relating thereto, the following article No. and the entries shall be inserted, namely:- Description of Instrument Proper Stamp- duty" 23A. CONVEYANCE IN THE NATURE OF PART Ninety per cent. Of PERFORMANCE- Contracts for the transfer of immovable the duty as a Property in the nature of part performance in any Union Conveyance Territory under section 53A of the Transfer of Property (No. 23).". Act,  1882 . (4 of  1882  ) 

 (a)  under column heading" Description of Instrument", in article No. 23, in Exemption, the portion beginning with the words" Assignment of Copyright" and ending with the word and figure" section 5." shall be numbered as clause (a) thereof, and after clau e (a) as so numbered, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-" (b) for the purpose of this article, the portion of duty paid in respect of a document falling under article No. 23A shall be excluded while computing the duty payable in respect of a corresponding document relating to the completion of the transaction n any union territory under this article.";

(a)

 (b)  after article No. 23 and the entries relating thereto, the following article No. and the entries shall be inserted, namely:- Description of Instrument Proper Stamp- duty" 23A. CONVEYANCE IN THE NATURE OF PART Ninety per cent. Of PERFORMANCE- Contracts for the transfer of immovable the duty as a Property in the nature of part performance in any Union Conveyance Territory under section 53A of the Transfer of Property (No. 23).". Act,  1882 . (4 of  1882  )

(b)

