Central Government Act

Section 19 in The Central Sales Tax (Amendment) Act,   2001

 19.  Central Sales Tax Appellate Authority.- (1)  The Central Government shall constitute, by notification in the Official Gazette, an Authority to settle inter- State disputes falling under section 6A or section 9 of this Act, to be known as" the Central S les Tax Appellate Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority)".  (2)  The Authority shall consist of the following Members appointed by the Central Government, namely:- (a)  a Chairman, who is a retired Judge of the Supreme Court, or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court;  (b)  an officer of the Indian Legal Service who is, or is qualified to be, an Additional Secretary to the Government of India; and  (c)  an officer of a State Government not below the rank of Secretary or an officer of the Central Government not below the rank of Additional Secretary, who is an expert in sales tax matters.   (3)  The salaries and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of, the Chairman and Members shall be such as may be prescribed.  (4)  The Central Government shall provide the Authority with such officers and staff as may be necessary for the efficient exercise of the powers of the Authority under this Act. 

 (1)  The Central Government shall constitute, by notification in the Official Gazette, an Authority to settle inter- State disputes falling under section 6A or section 9 of this Act, to be known as" the Central S les Tax Appellate Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority)".

(1)

 (2)  The Authority shall consist of the following Members appointed by the Central Government, namely:- (a)  a Chairman, who is a retired Judge of the Supreme Court, or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court;  (b)  an officer of the Indian Legal Service who is, or is qualified to be, an Additional Secretary to the Government of India; and  (c)  an officer of a State Government not below the rank of Secretary or an officer of the Central Government not below the rank of Additional Secretary, who is an expert in sales tax matters. 

(2)

 (a)  a Chairman, who is a retired Judge of the Supreme Court, or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court;

(a)

 (b)  an officer of the Indian Legal Service who is, or is qualified to be, an Additional Secretary to the Government of India; and

(b)

 (c)  an officer of a State Government not below the rank of Secretary or an officer of the Central Government not below the rank of Additional Secretary, who is an expert in sales tax matters.

(c)

 (3)  The salaries and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of, the Chairman and Members shall be such as may be prescribed.

(3)

 (4)  The Central Government shall provide the Authority with such officers and staff as may be necessary for the efficient exercise of the powers of the Authority under this Act.

(4)

