Central Government Act

Section 37 in The State Financial Corporations (Amendment) Act,   2000

 37.  Insertion of new section 48B.- After section 48A of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-" 48B. Power to make rules.- (1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act. (2)  In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for the procedure for filing and hearing of appeals under sub- section (5) of section 5.  (3)  Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, nd if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.". SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India. 

 (2)  In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for the procedure for filing and hearing of appeals under sub- section (5) of section 5.

(2)

 (3)  Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, nd if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.". SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

(3)

