Central Government Act

Section 352T in The Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act,   2002

 352T.  Contribution to the Fund.- (1)  Contributions to the Fund, in respect of contributing oil carried by sea to ports or terminal installations in India, shall be payable in accordance with Articles 10 and 12 of the Fund Convention.  (2)  Sub- section (1) shall apply whether or not the contributing oil is imported, and notwithstanding that contributions are payable to the Fund in respect of carriage of the same contributing oil on a previous voyage.  (3)  Contributions shall also be payable to the Fund in respect of contributing oil when first received in any installation in India after having been carried by sea and discharged in a port or terminal installation in a country which is not a Fund Conven ion country.  (4)  The person liable to pay contributions to the Fund shall be- (a)  in case of contributing oil which is being imported into India, the importer; or  (b)  in any other case, the person by whom the oil is received in India.   (5)  A person shall not be liable to pay contributions to the Fund in respect of the contributing oil imported or received by him in any year if the quantity of contributing oil so imported or received in the year does not exceed one hundred and fifty tho sand tonnes or as may be specified from time to time in the Fund Convention. 

 (1)  Contributions to the Fund, in respect of contributing oil carried by sea to ports or terminal installations in India, shall be payable in accordance with Articles 10 and 12 of the Fund Convention.

(1)

 (2)  Sub- section (1) shall apply whether or not the contributing oil is imported, and notwithstanding that contributions are payable to the Fund in respect of carriage of the same contributing oil on a previous voyage.

(2)

 (3)  Contributions shall also be payable to the Fund in respect of contributing oil when first received in any installation in India after having been carried by sea and discharged in a port or terminal installation in a country which is not a Fund Conven ion country.

(3)

 (4)  The person liable to pay contributions to the Fund shall be- (a)  in case of contributing oil which is being imported into India, the importer; or  (b)  in any other case, the person by whom the oil is received in India. 

(4)

 (a)  in case of contributing oil which is being imported into India, the importer; or

(a)

 (b)  in any other case, the person by whom the oil is received in India.

(b)

 (5)  A person shall not be liable to pay contributions to the Fund in respect of the contributing oil imported or received by him in any year if the quantity of contributing oil so imported or received in the year does not exceed one hundred and fifty tho sand tonnes or as may be specified from time to time in the Fund Convention.

(5)

