Central Government Act

The Pre- Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation And Prevention Ofmisuse) Amendment Act,   2001

























 1.  Short title.- This Act may be called the Pre- natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) Amendment Act,  2001 .

1.

 2.  Amendment of section 8 of Act 57 of  1994  .- In the Pre- natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) Act,  1994 , in section 8, in sub- section (1)  in clause (a),- (i)  the word" and" shall be omitted;  (ii)  the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-" Provided that the term of office of a member elected under clause (f) of sub- section (2) of section 7 shall come to an end as soon as the member becomes a Minister or Minister of State or Deputy Minister, or the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker of the Hous of the People, or the Deputy Chairman of the Council of States or ceases to be a member of the House from which she was elected; and". SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.  

2.

 (1)  in clause (a),- (i)  the word" and" shall be omitted;  (ii)  the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-" Provided that the term of office of a member elected under clause (f) of sub- section (2) of section 7 shall come to an end as soon as the member becomes a Minister or Minister of State or Deputy Minister, or the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker of the Hous of the People, or the Deputy Chairman of the Council of States or ceases to be a member of the House from which she was elected; and". SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India. 

(1)

 (i)  the word" and" shall be omitted;

(i)

 (ii)  the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-" Provided that the term of office of a member elected under clause (f) of sub- section (2) of section 7 shall come to an end as soon as the member becomes a Minister or Minister of State or Deputy Minister, or the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker of the Hous of the People, or the Deputy Chairman of the Council of States or ceases to be a member of the House from which she was elected; and". SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

(ii)

