Central Government Act

The Salary, Allowances And Pension Of Members Of Parliament (Amendment) Act,   2001

























 1.  Short title.- This Act may be called the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Act,  2001 .

1.

 2.  Amendment of section 3.- In section 3 of the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act,  1954  (30 of  1954  ) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), after the proviso, the following provisos shall be inserted, namely:- Provided further that in the case of salary, the provisions of this section shall have effect as if for the words" four thousand rupees", the words" twelve thousand rupees" had been substituted for a period of five years beginning from the date of commen ement of the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Act,  2001 : Provided also that in the case of the allowance, the provisions of this section shall have effect as if for the words" four hundred rupees", the words" five hundred rupees" had been substituted for a period of five years beginning from the date of commen ement of the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Act,  2001  .'.

2.

 3.  Amendment of section 4.- In section 4 of the Principal Act, in sub- section 1, in clause (c), in sub- clause (ii), for the words" six rupees per kilometre", the words" eight rupees per kilometre" shall be substituted.

3.

 4.  Amendment of section 8A.- In section 8A of the principal Act, in sub- section 1,- (a)  for the words" two thousand and five hundred rupees", the words" three thousand rupees" shall be substituted;  (b)  in the first proviso, for the words" five hundred rupees", the words" six hundred rupees" shall be substituted. SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India. 

4.

 (a)  for the words" two thousand and five hundred rupees", the words" three thousand rupees" shall be substituted;

(a)

 (b)  in the first proviso, for the words" five hundred rupees", the words" six hundred rupees" shall be substituted. SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

(b)

