Central Government Act

The Salaries And Allowances Of Ministers (Amendment) Act,   2001

























 1.  Short title and commencement.- (1)  This Act may be called the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Act,  2001 .  (2)  It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint. 

1.

 (1)  This Act may be called the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Act,  2001 .

(1)

 (2)  It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

(2)

 2.  Substitution of new section for section 5.- For section 5 of the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers Act,  1952  (58 of  1952  ) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), the following section shall be substituted, namely:-" 5. Sumptuary allowance to Ministers.- There shall be paid a sumptuary allowance to each Minister at the following rates, namely:- (a)  the Prime Minister Rupees three thousand per mensem;  (b)  every other Minister who is Rupees two thousand a member of the Cabinet per mensem;  (c)  a Minister of State Rupees one thousand per mensem;  (d)  a Deputy Minister Rupees six hundred per mensem.". 

2.

 (a)  the Prime Minister Rupees three thousand per mensem;

(a)

 (b)  every other Minister who is Rupees two thousand a member of the Cabinet per mensem;

(b)

 (c)  a Minister of State Rupees one thousand per mensem;

(c)

 (d)  a Deputy Minister Rupees six hundred per mensem.".

(d)

 3.  Amendment of section 6.- In section 6 of the principal Act, for sub- section (1A), the following sub- section shall be substituted, namely:-" (1A) A Minister shall be entitled to travelling allowance in respect of not more than twelve return journeys performed, during each year, within India, for himself and his family, whether travelling together or separately at the same rates at which trav lling allowance is payable to such Minister under clause (b) of sub- section (1) in respect of tours referred to in that clause, subject to the overall entitlement of forty- eight single journeys in each year.". SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

3.

