Central Government Act

Section 10B in The Cost And Works Accountants (Amendment) Act,   2006

 10B.  Establishment of Tribunal.- (1)  On receipt of any application under section 10A, the Central Government shall, by notification, establish a Tribunal consisting of a Presiding Officer and two other Members to decide such dispute and the decision of such Tribunal shall be final.  (2)  A person shall not be qualified for appointment,- (a)  as a Presiding Officer of the Tribunal unless he has been a member of the Indian Legal Service and has held a post in Grade I of the service for at least three years;  (b)  as a Member unless he has been a member of the Council for at least one full term, and who is not a sitting member of the Council or who has not been a candidate in the election under dispute; or  (c)  as a Member unless he holds the post of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India or any other post under the Central Government carrying a scale of pay which is not less than that of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India.   (3)  The terms and conditions of service of the Presiding Officer and Members of the Tribunal, their place of meetings and allowances shall be such as may be specified.  (4)  The expenses of the Tribunal shall be borne by the Council.". 

 (1)  On receipt of any application under section 10A, the Central Government shall, by notification, establish a Tribunal consisting of a Presiding Officer and two other Members to decide such dispute and the decision of such Tribunal shall be final.

(1)

 (2)  A person shall not be qualified for appointment,- (a)  as a Presiding Officer of the Tribunal unless he has been a member of the Indian Legal Service and has held a post in Grade I of the service for at least three years;  (b)  as a Member unless he has been a member of the Council for at least one full term, and who is not a sitting member of the Council or who has not been a candidate in the election under dispute; or  (c)  as a Member unless he holds the post of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India or any other post under the Central Government carrying a scale of pay which is not less than that of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India. 

(2)

 (a)  as a Presiding Officer of the Tribunal unless he has been a member of the Indian Legal Service and has held a post in Grade I of the service for at least three years;

(a)

 (b)  as a Member unless he has been a member of the Council for at least one full term, and who is not a sitting member of the Council or who has not been a candidate in the election under dispute; or

(b)

 (c)  as a Member unless he holds the post of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India or any other post under the Central Government carrying a scale of pay which is not less than that of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India.

(c)

 (3)  The terms and conditions of service of the Presiding Officer and Members of the Tribunal, their place of meetings and allowances shall be such as may be specified.

(3)

 (4)  The expenses of the Tribunal shall be borne by the Council.".

(4)

