Central Government Act

Section 12 in The Code Of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act,   2002

 12.  Amendment of Order XVIII.- In the First Schedule, in Order XVIII,- (a) in rule 2, after sub- rule (3), the following sub- rules shall be inserted, namely:-" (3A) Any party may address oral arguments in a case, and shall, before he concludes the oral arguments, if any, submit if the Court so permits concisely and under distinct headings written arguments in support of his case to the Court and such written a guments shall form part of the record. (3B)  A copy of such written arguments shall be simultaneously furnished to the opposite party.  (3C)  No adjournment shall be granted for the purpose of filing the written arguments unless the Court, for reasons to be recorded in writing, considers it necessary to grant such adjournment.  (3D)  The Court shall fix such time- limits for the oral arguments by either of the parties in a case, as it thinks fit."; (b)  for rule  4  as substituted by clause (ii) of section 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act,  1999  (46 of  1999  )], the following rule shall be substituted, namely:-" 4. Recording of evidence.- (1) In every case, the examination- in- chief of a witness shall be on affidavit and copies thereof shall be supplied to the opposite party by the party who calls him for evidence: Provided that where documents are filed and the parties rely upon the documents, the proof and admissibility of such documents which are filed along with affidavit shall be subject to the orders of the Court.   (2)  The evidence (cross- examination and re- examination) of the witness in attendance, whose evidence (examination- in- chief) by affidavit has been furnished to the Court, shall be taken either by the Court or by the Commissioner appointed by it: Provided that the Court may, while appointing a commission under this sub- rule, consider taking into account such relevant factors as it thinks fit.  (3)  The Court or the Commissioner, as the case may be, shall record evidence either in writing or mechanically in the presence of the Judge or of the Commissioner, as the case may be, and where such evidence is recorded by the Commissioner he shall retur such evidence together with his report in writing signed by him to the Court appointing him and the evidence taken under it shall form part of the record of the suit.  (4)  The Commissioner may record such remarks as it thinks material respecting the demeanour of any witness while under examination: Provided that any objection raised during the recording of evidence before the Commissioner shall be recorded by him and decided by the Court at the stage of arguments.  (5)  The report of the Commissioner shall be submitted to the Court appointing the commission within sixty days from the date of issue of the commission unless the Court for reasons to be recorded in writing extends the time.  (6)  The High Court or the District Judge, as the case may be, shall prepare a panel of Commissioners to record the evidence under this rule.  (7)  The Court may by general or special order fix the amount to be paid as remuneration for the services of the Commissioner.  (8)  The provisions of rules 16, 16A, 17 and 18 of Order XXVI, in so far as they are applicable, shall apply to the issue, execution and return of such commission under this rule.". 

 (3B)  A copy of such written arguments shall be simultaneously furnished to the opposite party.

(3B)

 (3C)  No adjournment shall be granted for the purpose of filing the written arguments unless the Court, for reasons to be recorded in writing, considers it necessary to grant such adjournment.

(3C)

 (3D)  The Court shall fix such time- limits for the oral arguments by either of the parties in a case, as it thinks fit."; (b)  for rule  4  as substituted by clause (ii) of section 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act,  1999  (46 of  1999  )], the following rule shall be substituted, namely:-" 4. Recording of evidence.- (1) In every case, the examination- in- chief of a witness shall be on affidavit and copies thereof shall be supplied to the opposite party by the party who calls him for evidence: Provided that where documents are filed and the parties rely upon the documents, the proof and admissibility of such documents which are filed along with affidavit shall be subject to the orders of the Court. 

(3D)

 (b)  for rule  4  as substituted by clause (ii) of section 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act,  1999  (46 of  1999  )], the following rule shall be substituted, namely:-" 4. Recording of evidence.- (1) In every case, the examination- in- chief of a witness shall be on affidavit and copies thereof shall be supplied to the opposite party by the party who calls him for evidence: Provided that where documents are filed and the parties rely upon the documents, the proof and admissibility of such documents which are filed along with affidavit shall be subject to the orders of the Court.

(b)

  4

 (2)  The evidence (cross- examination and re- examination) of the witness in attendance, whose evidence (examination- in- chief) by affidavit has been furnished to the Court, shall be taken either by the Court or by the Commissioner appointed by it: Provided that the Court may, while appointing a commission under this sub- rule, consider taking into account such relevant factors as it thinks fit.

(2)

 (3)  The Court or the Commissioner, as the case may be, shall record evidence either in writing or mechanically in the presence of the Judge or of the Commissioner, as the case may be, and where such evidence is recorded by the Commissioner he shall retur such evidence together with his report in writing signed by him to the Court appointing him and the evidence taken under it shall form part of the record of the suit.

(3)

 (4)  The Commissioner may record such remarks as it thinks material respecting the demeanour of any witness while under examination: Provided that any objection raised during the recording of evidence before the Commissioner shall be recorded by him and decided by the Court at the stage of arguments.

(4)

 (5)  The report of the Commissioner shall be submitted to the Court appointing the commission within sixty days from the date of issue of the commission unless the Court for reasons to be recorded in writing extends the time.

(5)

 (6)  The High Court or the District Judge, as the case may be, shall prepare a panel of Commissioners to record the evidence under this rule.

(6)

 (7)  The Court may by general or special order fix the amount to be paid as remuneration for the services of the Commissioner.

(7)

 (8)  The provisions of rules 16, 16A, 17 and 18 of Order XXVI, in so far as they are applicable, shall apply to the issue, execution and return of such commission under this rule.".

(8)

