Central Government Act

The National Institute Of Pharmaceutical Education And Research (Amendment) Act,   2007





























 1.  Short title and commence- ment.- (1)  This Act may be called the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Act,  2007 .  (2)  It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 29th day of January,  2007 . 

1.

 (1)  This Act may be called the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Act,  2007 .

(1)

 (2)  It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 29th day of January,  2007 .

(2)

 2.  Amendment of section 3.- In the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Act,  1998  (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 3, for clause (g), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- (g) " Institute" means a National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research established under sub- section (1) or sub- section (2A) of section 4;'. 

2.

 (g) " Institute" means a National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research established under sub- section (1) or sub- section (2A) of section 4;'.

(g)

 3.  Amendment of section 4.- In the principal Act, in section 4,- (i)  after sub- section (2), the following sub- section shall be inserted, namely:-" (2A) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, establish similar Institutes in different parts of the country.";  (ii)  in sub- section (3),- (A)  for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-" (d) the Secretary, Technical Education, Government of the State within which the Institute is situated, ex officio;";  (B)  after clause (j), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-" (ja) a representative of the Pharmacy Council of India;".  

3.

 (i)  after sub- section (2), the following sub- section shall be inserted, namely:-" (2A) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, establish similar Institutes in different parts of the country.";

(i)

 (ii)  in sub- section (3),- (A)  for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-" (d) the Secretary, Technical Education, Government of the State within which the Institute is situated, ex officio;";  (B)  after clause (j), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-" (ja) a representative of the Pharmacy Council of India;". 

(ii)

 (A)  for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-" (d) the Secretary, Technical Education, Government of the State within which the Institute is situated, ex officio;";

(A)

 (B)  after clause (j), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-" (ja) a representative of the Pharmacy Council of India;".

(B)

 4.  Insertion of new section 4A.- In the principal Act, after section 4, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-" 4A. Centres of Institute.- An Institute, with the prior approval of the Central Government, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, establish one or more centres in different locations within its jurisdiction.".

4.

 5.  Repeal and saving.- (1)  The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Ordinance,  2007  is hereby repealed.  (2)  Notwithstanding the repeal of the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Ordinance,  2007 , anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the principal Act, as amended by this Act. ---- K. N. Chaturvedi, Secy. to the Govt. of India. 

5.

 (1)  The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Ordinance,  2007  is hereby repealed.

(1)

 (2)  Notwithstanding the repeal of the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Ordinance,  2007 , anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the principal Act, as amended by this Act. ---- K. N. Chaturvedi, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

(2)

