Central Government Act

Section 7 in The Companies (Amendment) Act,   2000

 7.  Insertion of new section 17A.- After section 17 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted namely:-" 17A. Change of registered office within a State.- (1) No company shall change the place of its registered office from one place to another within a State unless such change is confirmed by the Regional Director. (2)  The company shall make an application in the prescribed form to the Regional Director for confirmation under sub- section (1).  (3)  The confirmation referred to in sub- section (1) shall be communicated to the company within four weeks from the date of receipt of application for such change. Explanation.- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the provisions of this section shall apply only to the companies which change the registered office from the jurisdiction of one Registrar of Companies to the jurisdiction of another Regi trar of Companies within the same State.  (4)  The company shall file, with the Registrar a certified copy of the confirmation by the Regional Director for change of its registered office under this section, within two months from the date of confirmation, together with a printed copy of the memo andum as altered and the Registrar shall register the same and certify the registration under his hand within one month from the date of filing of such document.  (5)  The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that all the requirements of this Act with respect to the alteration and confirmation have been complied with and henceforth the memorandum as altered shall be the memorandum of the company.". 

 (2)  The company shall make an application in the prescribed form to the Regional Director for confirmation under sub- section (1).

(2)

 (3)  The confirmation referred to in sub- section (1) shall be communicated to the company within four weeks from the date of receipt of application for such change. Explanation.- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the provisions of this section shall apply only to the companies which change the registered office from the jurisdiction of one Registrar of Companies to the jurisdiction of another Regi trar of Companies within the same State.

(3)

 (4)  The company shall file, with the Registrar a certified copy of the confirmation by the Regional Director for change of its registered office under this section, within two months from the date of confirmation, together with a printed copy of the memo andum as altered and the Registrar shall register the same and certify the registration under his hand within one month from the date of filing of such document.

(4)

 (5)  The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that all the requirements of this Act with respect to the alteration and confirmation have been complied with and henceforth the memorandum as altered shall be the memorandum of the company.".

(5)

