Central Government Act

Section 60B in The Companies (Amendment) Act,   2000

 60B.  Information memorandum.- (1)  A public company making an issue of securities may circulate information memorandum to the public prior to filing of a prospectus.  (2)  A company inviting subscription by an information memorandum shall be bound to file a prospectus prior to the opening of the subscription lists and the offer as a redherring prospectus, at least three days before the opening of the offer.  (3)  The information memorandum and redherring prospectus shall carry same obligations as are applicable in the case of a prospectus.  (4)  Any variation between the information memorandum and the redherring prospectus shall be highlighted as variations by the issuing company. Explanation.- For the purposes of sub- sections (2), (3) and (4)," redherring prospectus" means a prospectus which does not have complete particulars on the price of the securities offered and the quantum of securities offered.  (5)  Every variation as made and highlighted in accordance with sub- section (4) above shall be individually intimated to the persons invited to subscribe to the issue of securities.  (6)  In the event of the issuing company or the underwriters to the issue have invited or received advance subscription by way of cash or post- dated cheques or stock- invest, the company or such underwriters or bankers to the issue shall not encash such s bscription moneys or post- dated cheques or stock- invest before the date of opening of the issue, without having individually intimated the prospective subscribers of the variation and without having offered an opportunity to such prospective subscribers o withdraw their application and cancel their post- dated cheques or stock- invest or return of subscription paid.  (7)  The applicant or proposed subscriber shall exercise his right to withdraw from the application on any intimation of variation within seven days from the date of such intimation and shall indicate such withdrawal in writing to the company and the unde writers.  (8)  Any application for subscription which is acted upon by the company or underwriters or bankers to the issue without having given enough information of any variations, or the particulars of withdrawing the offer or opportunity for cancelling the post- ated cheques or stock- invest or stop payments for such payments shall be void and the applicants shall be entitled to receive a refund or return of its post- dated cheques or stock- invest or subscription moneys or cancellation of its application, as if th said application had never been made and the applicants are entitled to receive back their original application and interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. from the date of encashment till payment of realisation.  (9)  Upon the closing of the offer of securities, a final prospectus stating therein the total capital raised, whether by way of debt or share capital and the closing price of the securities and any other details as were not complete in the redherring prospectus shall be filed in a case of a listed public company with the Securities and Exchange Board of India and Registrar, and in any other case with the Registrar only.'. 

 (1)  A public company making an issue of securities may circulate information memorandum to the public prior to filing of a prospectus.

(1)

 (2)  A company inviting subscription by an information memorandum shall be bound to file a prospectus prior to the opening of the subscription lists and the offer as a redherring prospectus, at least three days before the opening of the offer.

(2)

 (3)  The information memorandum and redherring prospectus shall carry same obligations as are applicable in the case of a prospectus.

(3)

 (4)  Any variation between the information memorandum and the redherring prospectus shall be highlighted as variations by the issuing company. Explanation.- For the purposes of sub- sections (2), (3) and (4)," redherring prospectus" means a prospectus which does not have complete particulars on the price of the securities offered and the quantum of securities offered.

(4)

 (5)  Every variation as made and highlighted in accordance with sub- section (4) above shall be individually intimated to the persons invited to subscribe to the issue of securities.

(5)

 (6)  In the event of the issuing company or the underwriters to the issue have invited or received advance subscription by way of cash or post- dated cheques or stock- invest, the company or such underwriters or bankers to the issue shall not encash such s bscription moneys or post- dated cheques or stock- invest before the date of opening of the issue, without having individually intimated the prospective subscribers of the variation and without having offered an opportunity to such prospective subscribers o withdraw their application and cancel their post- dated cheques or stock- invest or return of subscription paid.

(6)

 (7)  The applicant or proposed subscriber shall exercise his right to withdraw from the application on any intimation of variation within seven days from the date of such intimation and shall indicate such withdrawal in writing to the company and the unde writers.

(7)

 (8)  Any application for subscription which is acted upon by the company or underwriters or bankers to the issue without having given enough information of any variations, or the particulars of withdrawing the offer or opportunity for cancelling the post- ated cheques or stock- invest or stop payments for such payments shall be void and the applicants shall be entitled to receive a refund or return of its post- dated cheques or stock- invest or subscription moneys or cancellation of its application, as if th said application had never been made and the applicants are entitled to receive back their original application and interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. from the date of encashment till payment of realisation.

(8)

 (9)  Upon the closing of the offer of securities, a final prospectus stating therein the total capital raised, whether by way of debt or share capital and the closing price of the securities and any other details as were not complete in the redherring prospectus shall be filed in a case of a listed public company with the Securities and Exchange Board of India and Registrar, and in any other case with the Registrar only.'.

(9)

