Central Government Act

Section 3 in The Indian Council Of World Affairs (Amendment) Act,   2003

 3.  Amendment of section 15.- In section 15 of the principal Act, for sub- sections (1)  and (2), the following sub- sections shall be substituted, namely:-" (1) There shall be a Director- General of the Council who shall, before a Council is constituted under sub- section (2) of section 7, be appointed by the Council constituted under sub- section (1) of that section and thereafter during the tenure of a Council constituted under sub- section (2) of section 7, by that Council.  (1A)  Every appointment of the Director- General under sub- section (1) shall be made from a panel of at least two names recommended by the Government of India in the Ministry of External Affairs.  (1B)  The Director- General shall be the chief executive officer of the Council.  (1C)  The Director- General shall be at least equivalent to the rank of Additional Secretary to the Government of India and shall have a tenure not exceeding three years.  (2)  The Director- General shall act as ex officio Member- Secretary to the Council, its Governing Body and other bodies and Committees thereof.". 

 (1)  and (2), the following sub- sections shall be substituted, namely:-" (1) There shall be a Director- General of the Council who shall, before a Council is constituted under sub- section (2) of section 7, be appointed by the Council constituted under sub- section (1) of that section and thereafter during the tenure of a Council constituted under sub- section (2) of section 7, by that Council.

(1)

 (1A)  Every appointment of the Director- General under sub- section (1) shall be made from a panel of at least two names recommended by the Government of India in the Ministry of External Affairs.

(1A)

 (1B)  The Director- General shall be the chief executive officer of the Council.

(1B)

 (1C)  The Director- General shall be at least equivalent to the rank of Additional Secretary to the Government of India and shall have a tenure not exceeding three years.

(1C)

 (2)  The Director- General shall act as ex officio Member- Secretary to the Council, its Governing Body and other bodies and Committees thereof.".

(2)

