Central Government Act

Section 7 in The Insecticides (Amendment) Act,   2000

 7.  Insertion of new section 31A.- After section 31 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-' 31A. Special Courts.- (1) If the State Government is satisfied that it is necessary for the purpose of providing for speedy trial of offences under this Act in any district or metropolitan area, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette and after c nsultation with the High Court, notify one or more Courts of Judicial Magistrates of the first class, or, as the case may be, Metropolitan Magistrates, in such district or metropolitan area to be Special Courts for the purposes of this Act. (2)  Unless otherwise directed by the High Court, a court notified under sub- section (1) shall exercise jurisdiction only in respect of cases under this Act.  (3)  Subject to the provisions of sub- section (2), the jurisdiction and powers of the presiding officer of court notified under sub- section (1) in any district or metropolitan area shall extend throughout the district or the metropolitan area, as the case may be.  (4)  Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, a court notified under sub- section (1) in any district or metropolitan area shall be deemed to be a court established under sub- section (1) of section 11, or, as the case may be, sub- section (1) of section 16 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,  1973  (2 of  1974  ) and the pr visions of that Code shall apply accordingly in relation to such courts. Explanation.- In this section," High Court" has the same meaning as in clause (e) of section 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,  1973  (2 of  1974  ).'. SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India. 

 (2)  Unless otherwise directed by the High Court, a court notified under sub- section (1) shall exercise jurisdiction only in respect of cases under this Act.

(2)

 (3)  Subject to the provisions of sub- section (2), the jurisdiction and powers of the presiding officer of court notified under sub- section (1) in any district or metropolitan area shall extend throughout the district or the metropolitan area, as the case may be.

(3)

 (4)  Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, a court notified under sub- section (1) in any district or metropolitan area shall be deemed to be a court established under sub- section (1) of section 11, or, as the case may be, sub- section (1) of section 16 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,  1973  (2 of  1974  ) and the pr visions of that Code shall apply accordingly in relation to such courts. Explanation.- In this section," High Court" has the same meaning as in clause (e) of section 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,  1973  (2 of  1974  ).'. SUBHASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

(4)

