Central Government Act

Section 12D in The National Commission For Minority Educational Institutions (Amendment) Act,   2006

 12D.  Power of Commission to investigate matters relating to deprivation of educational rights of minorities.- (1)  The Commission shall have the power to investigate into the complaints relating to deprivation of the educational rights of minorities.  (2)  The Commission may, for the purpose of conducting any investigation pertaining to a complaint under this Act, utilise the services of any officer of the Central Government or any State Government with the concurrence of the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be. (3) For the purpose of investigation under sub- section (1), the officer whose services are utilised may, subject to the direction and control of the Commission,- (a)  summon and enforce the attendance of any person and examine him;  (b)  require the discovery and production of any document; and  (c)  requisition any public record or copy thereof from any office.   (4)  The officer whose services are utilised under sub- section (2) shall investigate into any matter entrusted to it by the Commission and submit a report thereon to it within such period as may be specified by the Commission in this behalf.  (5)  The Commission shall satisfy itself about the correctness of the facts stated and the conclusion, if any, arrived at in the report submitted to it under sub- section (4) and for this purpose the Commission may make such further inquiry as it may think fit. 

 (1)  The Commission shall have the power to investigate into the complaints relating to deprivation of the educational rights of minorities.

(1)

 (2)  The Commission may, for the purpose of conducting any investigation pertaining to a complaint under this Act, utilise the services of any officer of the Central Government or any State Government with the concurrence of the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be. (3) For the purpose of investigation under sub- section (1), the officer whose services are utilised may, subject to the direction and control of the Commission,- (a)  summon and enforce the attendance of any person and examine him;  (b)  require the discovery and production of any document; and  (c)  requisition any public record or copy thereof from any office. 

(2)

 (a)  summon and enforce the attendance of any person and examine him;

(a)

 (b)  require the discovery and production of any document; and

(b)

 (c)  requisition any public record or copy thereof from any office.

(c)

 (4)  The officer whose services are utilised under sub- section (2) shall investigate into any matter entrusted to it by the Commission and submit a report thereon to it within such period as may be specified by the Commission in this behalf.

(4)

 (5)  The Commission shall satisfy itself about the correctness of the facts stated and the conclusion, if any, arrived at in the report submitted to it under sub- section (4) and for this purpose the Commission may make such further inquiry as it may think fit.

(5)

