Central Government Act

Section 6 in The National Commission For Minority Educational Institutions (Amendment) Act,   2006

 6.  Insertion of new sections 12A to 12F.- After section 12 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be inserted, namely:-' 12A. Appeal against orders of the Competent authority.- (I) Any person aggrieved by the order of refusal to grant no objection certificate under sub- section (2) of section 10 by the Competent authority for establishing a Minority Educational Institution, may prefer an appeal against such order to the Commission. (2)  An appeal under sub- section (I) shall be filed within thirty days from the date of the order referred to in sub- section (I) communicated to the applicant: Provided that the Commission may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period.  (3)  An appeal to the Commission shall be made in such form as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the order against which the appeal has been filed.  (4)  The Commission, after hearing the parties, shall pass an order as soon as may be practicable, and give such directions as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to its orders or to prevent abuse of its process or to secure the ends of justice. (5) An order made by the Commission under sub- section (4) shall be executable by the Commission as a decree of a civil court and the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure,  1908  (5 of  1908  ), so far as may be, shall apply as they apply in respect of a decree of a civil court. 

 (2)  An appeal under sub- section (I) shall be filed within thirty days from the date of the order referred to in sub- section (I) communicated to the applicant: Provided that the Commission may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period.

(2)

 (3)  An appeal to the Commission shall be made in such form as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the order against which the appeal has been filed.

(3)

 (4)  The Commission, after hearing the parties, shall pass an order as soon as may be practicable, and give such directions as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to its orders or to prevent abuse of its process or to secure the ends of justice. (5) An order made by the Commission under sub- section (4) shall be executable by the Commission as a decree of a civil court and the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure,  1908  (5 of  1908  ), so far as may be, shall apply as they apply in respect of a decree of a civil court.

(4)

