Central Government Act

Section 13A(1) in The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Act,   2002

 (1)  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force,- (a)  no person shall establish a medical institution; or  (b)  no medical institution shall- (i)  open a new or higher course of study or training, including a post- graduate course of study or training, which would enable students of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or  (ii)  increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training. except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this section," person" includes any University or a trust, but does not include the Central Government. Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this section," admission capacity", in relation to any course of study or training, including post- graduate course of study or training, in a medical institution, means the maximum number of students as may be fixed by he Central Council from time to time for being admitted to such course or training.  

 (a)  no person shall establish a medical institution; or

(a)

 (b)  no medical institution shall- (i)  open a new or higher course of study or training, including a post- graduate course of study or training, which would enable students of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or  (ii)  increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training. except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this section," person" includes any University or a trust, but does not include the Central Government. Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this section," admission capacity", in relation to any course of study or training, including post- graduate course of study or training, in a medical institution, means the maximum number of students as may be fixed by he Central Council from time to time for being admitted to such course or training. 

(b)

 (i)  open a new or higher course of study or training, including a post- graduate course of study or training, which would enable students of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or

(i)

 (ii)  increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training. except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this section," person" includes any University or a trust, but does not include the Central Government. Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this section," admission capacity", in relation to any course of study or training, including post- graduate course of study or training, in a medical institution, means the maximum number of students as may be fixed by he Central Council from time to time for being admitted to such course or training.

(ii)

