Central Government Act

Section 352V in The Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act,   2002

 352V.  Power to call for information.- (1)  The Central Government may, for the purpose of transmitting to the Fund the names and addresses of the persons who under section 352T are liable to make contributions to the Fund every year and the quantity of con ributing oil in respect of which they are so liable, by notice require any such person to furnish such information as may be specified therein.  (2)  A notice under this section may require a person to give such information as may be required to ascertain whether he is liable to contribute to the Fund.  (3)  A notice under this section may specify the manner in which, and the time within which, such notice is to be complied with.  (4)  In proceedings by the Fund against any person to recover any amount due under section 352T, particulars contained in any list transmitted by the Central Government to the Fund shall, so far as those particulars are based on information obtained under this section, be admissible as evidence of the facts stated in the list; and so far as particulars which are so admissible are based on information given by the person against whom the proceedings are brought, those particulars shall be presumed to be ac urate until the contrary is proved.  (5)  No person shall disclose any information which has been furnished to or obtained by him under this section unless the disclosure is made,- (a)  with the consent of the person from whom the information was obtained;  (b)  in connection with the compliance of this section;  (c)  for the purpose of any legal proceedings arising out of this section or of any report of such proceedings.   (6)  A person who,- (a)  refuses or wilfully neglects to comply with a notice under this section; or  (b)  makes, while furnishing any information in compliance with a notice under this section, any statement which he knows to be false in a material particular, or recklessly makes any statement which is false in a material particular, shall be guilty of an offence punishable under this Act.  

 (1)  The Central Government may, for the purpose of transmitting to the Fund the names and addresses of the persons who under section 352T are liable to make contributions to the Fund every year and the quantity of con ributing oil in respect of which they are so liable, by notice require any such person to furnish such information as may be specified therein.

(1)

 (2)  A notice under this section may require a person to give such information as may be required to ascertain whether he is liable to contribute to the Fund.

(2)

 (3)  A notice under this section may specify the manner in which, and the time within which, such notice is to be complied with.

(3)

 (4)  In proceedings by the Fund against any person to recover any amount due under section 352T, particulars contained in any list transmitted by the Central Government to the Fund shall, so far as those particulars are based on information obtained under this section, be admissible as evidence of the facts stated in the list; and so far as particulars which are so admissible are based on information given by the person against whom the proceedings are brought, those particulars shall be presumed to be ac urate until the contrary is proved.

(4)

 (5)  No person shall disclose any information which has been furnished to or obtained by him under this section unless the disclosure is made,- (a)  with the consent of the person from whom the information was obtained;  (b)  in connection with the compliance of this section;  (c)  for the purpose of any legal proceedings arising out of this section or of any report of such proceedings. 

(5)

 (a)  with the consent of the person from whom the information was obtained;

(a)

 (b)  in connection with the compliance of this section;

(b)

 (c)  for the purpose of any legal proceedings arising out of this section or of any report of such proceedings.

(c)

 (6)  A person who,- (a)  refuses or wilfully neglects to comply with a notice under this section; or  (b)  makes, while furnishing any information in compliance with a notice under this section, any statement which he knows to be false in a material particular, or recklessly makes any statement which is false in a material particular, shall be guilty of an offence punishable under this Act. 

(6)

 (a)  refuses or wilfully neglects to comply with a notice under this section; or

(a)

 (b)  makes, while furnishing any information in compliance with a notice under this section, any statement which he knows to be false in a material particular, or recklessly makes any statement which is false in a material particular, shall be guilty of an offence punishable under this Act.

(b)

