Central Government Act

The Prevention Of Insults To National Honour (Amendment) Act,   2003

























 1.  Short title.- This Act may be called the Prevention of Insults to National Honour (Amendment) Act,  2003 .

1.

 2.  Amendment of section 2.- In section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act,  1971  (69 of  1971  ) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act),- (a)  for the words otherwise brings", the words" otherwise shows disrespect to or brings" shall be substituted;  (b)  after Explanation 3, the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:-' Explanation 4.- The disrespect to the Indian National Flag means and includes-  (a)  a gross affront or indignity offered to the Indian National Flag; or  (b)  dipping the Indian National Flag in salute to any person or thing; or  (c)  flying the Indian National Flag at half- mast except on occasions on which the Indian National Flag is flown at half- mast on public buildings in accordance with the instructions issued by the Government; or  (d)  using the Indian National Flag as a drapery in any form whatsoever except in State Funerals or armed forces or other para- military forces funerals; or  (e)  using the Indian National Flag as a portion of costume or uniform of any description or embroidering or printing it on cushions, handkerchiefs, napkins or any dress material; or  (f)  putting any kind of inscription upon the Indian National Flag; or  (g)  using the Indian National Flag as a receptacle for receiving, delivering or carrying anything except flower petals before the Indian National Flag is unfurled as a part of celebrations on special occasions including the Republic Day or the Independen e Day; or  (h)  using the Indian National Flag as covering for a statute or a monument or a speaker' s desk or a speaker' s platform; or  (i)  allowing the Indian National Flag to touch the ground or the floor or trail in water intentionally; or  (j)  draping the Indian National Flag over the hood, top and sides or back or on a vehicle, train, boat or an aircraft or any other similar object; or  (k)  using the Indian National Flag as a covering for a building; or (i)  intentionally displaying the Indian National Flag with the" saffron" down.'.  

2.

 (a)  for the words otherwise brings", the words" otherwise shows disrespect to or brings" shall be substituted;

(a)

 (b)  after Explanation 3, the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:-' Explanation 4.- The disrespect to the Indian National Flag means and includes-

(b)

 (a)  a gross affront or indignity offered to the Indian National Flag; or

(a)

 (b)  dipping the Indian National Flag in salute to any person or thing; or

(b)

 (c)  flying the Indian National Flag at half- mast except on occasions on which the Indian National Flag is flown at half- mast on public buildings in accordance with the instructions issued by the Government; or

(c)

 (d)  using the Indian National Flag as a drapery in any form whatsoever except in State Funerals or armed forces or other para- military forces funerals; or

(d)

 (e)  using the Indian National Flag as a portion of costume or uniform of any description or embroidering or printing it on cushions, handkerchiefs, napkins or any dress material; or

(e)

 (f)  putting any kind of inscription upon the Indian National Flag; or

(f)

 (g)  using the Indian National Flag as a receptacle for receiving, delivering or carrying anything except flower petals before the Indian National Flag is unfurled as a part of celebrations on special occasions including the Republic Day or the Independen e Day; or

(g)

 (h)  using the Indian National Flag as covering for a statute or a monument or a speaker' s desk or a speaker' s platform; or

(h)

 (i)  allowing the Indian National Flag to touch the ground or the floor or trail in water intentionally; or

(i)

 (j)  draping the Indian National Flag over the hood, top and sides or back or on a vehicle, train, boat or an aircraft or any other similar object; or

(j)

 (k)  using the Indian National Flag as a covering for a building; or (i)  intentionally displaying the Indian National Flag with the" saffron" down.'. 

(k)

 (i)  intentionally displaying the Indian National Flag with the" saffron" down.'.

(i)

 3.  Insertion of new section 3A.- After section 3 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-" 3A. Enhanced penalty on second and subsequent convictions.- Whoever, having already been convicted of an offence under section 2 or section 3, is again convicted of any such offence shall be punishable for the second and for every subsequent offence, wit imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year.". SUBJASH C. JAIN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

3.

