Central Government Act

Section 3 in The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act,   2006

 3.  Insertion of new section 2A.- After section 2 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-' 2A. Essential commodities declaration, etc.- (1) For the purposes of this Act," essential commodity" means a commodity specified in the Schedule. (2)  Subject to the provisions of sub- section (4), the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that it is necessary so to do in the public interest and for reasons to be specified in the notification published in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule so as to- (a)  add a commodity to the said Schedule;  (b)  remove any commodity from the said Schedule, in consultation with the State Governments.   (3)  Any notification issued under sub- section (2) may also direct that an entry shall be made against such commodity in the said Schedule declaring that such commodity shall be deemed to be an essential commodity for such period not exceeding six months to be specified in the notification: Provided that the Central Government may, in the public interest and for reasons to be specified, by notification in the Official Gazette, extend such period beyond the said six months.  (4)  The Central Government may exercise its powers under sub- section (2) in respect of the commodity to which Parliament has power to make laws by virtue of Entry 33 in List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.  (5)  Every notification issued under sub- section (2) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before both Houses of Parliament.'. 

 (2)  Subject to the provisions of sub- section (4), the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that it is necessary so to do in the public interest and for reasons to be specified in the notification published in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule so as to- (a)  add a commodity to the said Schedule;  (b)  remove any commodity from the said Schedule, in consultation with the State Governments. 

(2)

 (a)  add a commodity to the said Schedule;

(a)

 (b)  remove any commodity from the said Schedule, in consultation with the State Governments.

(b)

 (3)  Any notification issued under sub- section (2) may also direct that an entry shall be made against such commodity in the said Schedule declaring that such commodity shall be deemed to be an essential commodity for such period not exceeding six months to be specified in the notification: Provided that the Central Government may, in the public interest and for reasons to be specified, by notification in the Official Gazette, extend such period beyond the said six months.

(3)

 (4)  The Central Government may exercise its powers under sub- section (2) in respect of the commodity to which Parliament has power to make laws by virtue of Entry 33 in List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.

(4)

 (5)  Every notification issued under sub- section (2) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before both Houses of Parliament.'.

(5)

