Central Government Act

Section 7A in The Citizenship (Amendment) Act,   2003

 7A.  Registration of overseas citizens.- (1)  The Central Government may, subject to such conditions and restrictions including the condition of reciprocity as may be prescribed, on an application made in this behalf, register any person as an overseas citizen of India if- (a)  that person is of Indian origin of full age and capacity who is a citizen of a specified country; or  (b)  that person is of full age and capacity who has obtained the citizenship of a specified country on or after the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,  2003  and who was a citizen of India immediately before such commencement; or  (c)  that person is a minor of a person mentioned in clause (a) or clause (b).   (2)  The person registered as an overseas citizen of India under sub- section (1) shall be an overseas citizen of India as from the date on which he is so registered.  (3)  No person who has been deprived of his Indian citizenship under this Act shall be registered as an overseas citizen of India under sub- section (1) except by an order of the Central Government. Explanation.- For the purposes of this section and sections 7B, 7C and 7D, the expression" person of Indian origin" shall mean a citizen of another country who- (i)  was eligible to become a citizen of India at the time of the commencement of the Constitution;  (ii)  belonged to a territory that became part of India after the 15th day of August,  1947 ; and  (iii)  the children and grand- children of a person covered under clauses (i) and (ii), but does not include a person who is or had been at any time a citizen of Pakistan, Bangladesh or such other country as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify. Conferment of rights on overseas citizens of India.  

 (1)  The Central Government may, subject to such conditions and restrictions including the condition of reciprocity as may be prescribed, on an application made in this behalf, register any person as an overseas citizen of India if- (a)  that person is of Indian origin of full age and capacity who is a citizen of a specified country; or  (b)  that person is of full age and capacity who has obtained the citizenship of a specified country on or after the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,  2003  and who was a citizen of India immediately before such commencement; or  (c)  that person is a minor of a person mentioned in clause (a) or clause (b). 

(1)

 (a)  that person is of Indian origin of full age and capacity who is a citizen of a specified country; or

(a)

 (b)  that person is of full age and capacity who has obtained the citizenship of a specified country on or after the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,  2003  and who was a citizen of India immediately before such commencement; or

(b)

 (c)  that person is a minor of a person mentioned in clause (a) or clause (b).

(c)

 (2)  The person registered as an overseas citizen of India under sub- section (1) shall be an overseas citizen of India as from the date on which he is so registered.

(2)

 (3)  No person who has been deprived of his Indian citizenship under this Act shall be registered as an overseas citizen of India under sub- section (1) except by an order of the Central Government. Explanation.- For the purposes of this section and sections 7B, 7C and 7D, the expression" person of Indian origin" shall mean a citizen of another country who- (i)  was eligible to become a citizen of India at the time of the commencement of the Constitution;  (ii)  belonged to a territory that became part of India after the 15th day of August,  1947 ; and  (iii)  the children and grand- children of a person covered under clauses (i) and (ii), but does not include a person who is or had been at any time a citizen of Pakistan, Bangladesh or such other country as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify. Conferment of rights on overseas citizens of India. 

(3)

 (i)  was eligible to become a citizen of India at the time of the commencement of the Constitution;

(i)

 (ii)  belonged to a territory that became part of India after the 15th day of August,  1947 ; and

(ii)

 (iii)  the children and grand- children of a person covered under clauses (i) and (ii), but does not include a person who is or had been at any time a citizen of Pakistan, Bangladesh or such other country as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify. Conferment of rights on overseas citizens of India.

(iii)

