Central Government Act

Section 581K in The Companies (Amendment) Act,   2002

 581K.  Effect of incorporation of Producer Company.- Every shareholder of the inter- State co- operative society immediately before the date of registration of Producer Company (hereafter referred to as the transformation date) shall be deemed to be register d on and from that date as a shareholder of the Producer Company to the extent of the face value of the shares held by such shareholder. 581L. Vesting of undertaking in Producer Company.- (1)  All properties and assets, movable and immovable, of, or belonging to, the inter- State co- operative society as on the transformation date, shall vest in the Producer Company.  (2)  All the rights, debts, liabilities, interests, privileges and obligations of the inter- State co- operative society as on the transformation date shall stand transferred to, and be the rights, debts, liabilities, interests, privileges and obligations f, the Producer Company.  (3)  Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub- section (2), all debts, liabilities and obligations incurred, all contracts entered into and all matters and things engaged to be done by, with or for, the society as on the transformation date for or in connection with their purposes, shall be deemed to have been incurred, entered into, or engaged to be done by, with or for, the Producer Company.  (4)  All sums of money due to the inter- State co- operative society immediately before the transformation date, shall be deemed to be due to the Producer Company.  (5)  Every organisation, which was being managed immediately before the transformation date by the inter- State co- operative society shall be managed by the Producer Company for such period, to such extent and in such manner as the circumstances may requir.  (6)  Every organisation which was getting financial, managerial or technical assistance from the inter- State co- operative society, immediately before the transformation date, may continue to be given financial, managerial or technical assistance, as the ase may be, by the Producer Company, for such period, to such extent and in such manner as that company may deem fit.  (7)  The amount representing the capital of the erstwhile inter- State co- operative society shall form part of the capital of the Producer Company.  (8)  Any reference to the inter- State co- operative society in any law other than this Act or in any contract or other instrument, shall be deemed to be reference to the Producer Company.  (9)  If, on the transformation date, there is pending any suit, arbitration, appeal or other legal proceeding of whatever nature by or against the inter- State co- operative society, the same shall not abate, be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially a fected by reason of the incorporation of the Producer Company under section 581C or transformation of the inter- State co- operative society as a Producer Company under section 581J, as the case may be, but the suit, arbitration, appeal or other proceeding may be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the Producer Company in the same manner and to the same extent as it would have, or may have been continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the inter- State co- operative society as if the pro isions contained in this Part had not come into force. 

 (1)  All properties and assets, movable and immovable, of, or belonging to, the inter- State co- operative society as on the transformation date, shall vest in the Producer Company.

(1)

 (2)  All the rights, debts, liabilities, interests, privileges and obligations of the inter- State co- operative society as on the transformation date shall stand transferred to, and be the rights, debts, liabilities, interests, privileges and obligations f, the Producer Company.

(2)

 (3)  Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub- section (2), all debts, liabilities and obligations incurred, all contracts entered into and all matters and things engaged to be done by, with or for, the society as on the transformation date for or in connection with their purposes, shall be deemed to have been incurred, entered into, or engaged to be done by, with or for, the Producer Company.

(3)

 (4)  All sums of money due to the inter- State co- operative society immediately before the transformation date, shall be deemed to be due to the Producer Company.

(4)

 (5)  Every organisation, which was being managed immediately before the transformation date by the inter- State co- operative society shall be managed by the Producer Company for such period, to such extent and in such manner as the circumstances may requir.

(5)

 (6)  Every organisation which was getting financial, managerial or technical assistance from the inter- State co- operative society, immediately before the transformation date, may continue to be given financial, managerial or technical assistance, as the ase may be, by the Producer Company, for such period, to such extent and in such manner as that company may deem fit.

(6)

 (7)  The amount representing the capital of the erstwhile inter- State co- operative society shall form part of the capital of the Producer Company.

(7)

 (8)  Any reference to the inter- State co- operative society in any law other than this Act or in any contract or other instrument, shall be deemed to be reference to the Producer Company.

(8)

 (9)  If, on the transformation date, there is pending any suit, arbitration, appeal or other legal proceeding of whatever nature by or against the inter- State co- operative society, the same shall not abate, be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially a fected by reason of the incorporation of the Producer Company under section 581C or transformation of the inter- State co- operative society as a Producer Company under section 581J, as the case may be, but the suit, arbitration, appeal or other proceeding may be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the Producer Company in the same manner and to the same extent as it would have, or may have been continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the inter- State co- operative society as if the pro isions contained in this Part had not come into force.

(9)

