Central Government Act

Section 14 in The Pre- Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation And Prevention Of Misuse) Amendment Act,   2002

 14.  Insertion of new section 16A.- After section 16 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-" 16A. Constitution of State Supervisory Board and Union territory Supervisory Board.- (1) Each State and Union territory having Legislature shall constitute a Board to be known as the State Supervisory Board or the Union territory Supervisory Board, as th case may be, which shall have the following functions:- (i)  to create public awareness against the practice of pre- conception sex selection and pre- natal determination of sex of the foetus leading to female foeticide in the State;  (ii)  to review the activities of the Appropriate Authorities functioning in the State and recommend appropriate action against them;  (iii)  to monitor the implementation of provisions of the Act and the rules and make suitable recommendations relating thereto, to the Board;  (iv)  to send such consolidated reports as may be prescribed in respect of the various activities undertaken in the State under the Act to the Board and the Central Government; and  (v)  any other functions as may be prescribed under the Act. (2)  The State Board shall consist of,- (a)  the Minister in charge of Health and Family Welfare in the State, who shall be the Chairperson, ex officio;  (b)  Secretary in charge of the Department of Health and Family Welfare who shall be the Vice- Chairperson, ex officio;  (c)  Secretaries or Commissioners in charge of Departments of Women and Child Development, Social Welfare, Law and Indian System of Medicines and Homoeopathy, ex officio, or their representatives;  (d)  Director of Health and Family Welfare or Indian System of Medicines and Homoeopathy of the State Government, ex officio;  (e)  three women members of Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council;  (f)  ten members to be appointed by the State Government out of which two each shall be from the following categories,-    (i)  eminent social scientists and legal experts;  (ii)  eminent women activists from non- governmental organisations or otherwise;  (iii)  eminent gynaecologists and obstetricians or experts of stri- roga or prasuti- tantra;  (iv)  eminent paediatricians or medical geneticists;  (v)  eminent radiologists or sonologists; (g)  an officer not below the rank of Joint Director in charge of Family Welfare, who shall be the Member Secretary, ex officio. (3)  The State Board shall meet at least once in four months.  (4)  The term of office of a member, other than an ex officio member, shall be three years.  (5)  If a vacancy occurs in the office of any member other than an ex officio member, it shall be filled by making fresh appointment.  (6)  If a member of the Legislative Assembly or member of the Legislative Council who is a member of the State Board, becomes Minister or Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly or Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson of the Legislative Council she shall cease to be a member of the State Board.  (7)  One- third of the total number of members of the State Board shall constitute the quorum.  (8)  The State Board may co- opt a member as and when required, provided that the number of co- opted members does not exceed one- third of the total strength of the State Board.  (9)  The co- opted members shall have the same powers and functions as other members, except the right to vote and shall abide by the rules and regulations.  (10)  In respect of matters not specified in this section, the State Board shall follow procedures and conditions as are applicable to the Board.".   

 (i)  to create public awareness against the practice of pre- conception sex selection and pre- natal determination of sex of the foetus leading to female foeticide in the State;

(i)

 (ii)  to review the activities of the Appropriate Authorities functioning in the State and recommend appropriate action against them;

(ii)

 (iii)  to monitor the implementation of provisions of the Act and the rules and make suitable recommendations relating thereto, to the Board;

(iii)

 (iv)  to send such consolidated reports as may be prescribed in respect of the various activities undertaken in the State under the Act to the Board and the Central Government; and

(iv)

 (v)  any other functions as may be prescribed under the Act. (2)  The State Board shall consist of,- (a)  the Minister in charge of Health and Family Welfare in the State, who shall be the Chairperson, ex officio;  (b)  Secretary in charge of the Department of Health and Family Welfare who shall be the Vice- Chairperson, ex officio;  (c)  Secretaries or Commissioners in charge of Departments of Women and Child Development, Social Welfare, Law and Indian System of Medicines and Homoeopathy, ex officio, or their representatives;  (d)  Director of Health and Family Welfare or Indian System of Medicines and Homoeopathy of the State Government, ex officio;  (e)  three women members of Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council;  (f)  ten members to be appointed by the State Government out of which two each shall be from the following categories,-  

(v)

 (2)  The State Board shall consist of,- (a)  the Minister in charge of Health and Family Welfare in the State, who shall be the Chairperson, ex officio;  (b)  Secretary in charge of the Department of Health and Family Welfare who shall be the Vice- Chairperson, ex officio;  (c)  Secretaries or Commissioners in charge of Departments of Women and Child Development, Social Welfare, Law and Indian System of Medicines and Homoeopathy, ex officio, or their representatives;  (d)  Director of Health and Family Welfare or Indian System of Medicines and Homoeopathy of the State Government, ex officio;  (e)  three women members of Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council;  (f)  ten members to be appointed by the State Government out of which two each shall be from the following categories,- 

(2)

 (a)  the Minister in charge of Health and Family Welfare in the State, who shall be the Chairperson, ex officio;

(a)

 (b)  Secretary in charge of the Department of Health and Family Welfare who shall be the Vice- Chairperson, ex officio;

(b)

 (c)  Secretaries or Commissioners in charge of Departments of Women and Child Development, Social Welfare, Law and Indian System of Medicines and Homoeopathy, ex officio, or their representatives;

(c)

 (d)  Director of Health and Family Welfare or Indian System of Medicines and Homoeopathy of the State Government, ex officio;

(d)

 (e)  three women members of Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council;

(e)

 (f)  ten members to be appointed by the State Government out of which two each shall be from the following categories,-

(f)

 (i)  eminent social scientists and legal experts;

(i)

 (ii)  eminent women activists from non- governmental organisations or otherwise;

(ii)

 (iii)  eminent gynaecologists and obstetricians or experts of stri- roga or prasuti- tantra;

(iii)

 (iv)  eminent paediatricians or medical geneticists;

(iv)

 (v)  eminent radiologists or sonologists; (g)  an officer not below the rank of Joint Director in charge of Family Welfare, who shall be the Member Secretary, ex officio. (3)  The State Board shall meet at least once in four months.  (4)  The term of office of a member, other than an ex officio member, shall be three years.  (5)  If a vacancy occurs in the office of any member other than an ex officio member, it shall be filled by making fresh appointment.  (6)  If a member of the Legislative Assembly or member of the Legislative Council who is a member of the State Board, becomes Minister or Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly or Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson of the Legislative Council she shall cease to be a member of the State Board.  (7)  One- third of the total number of members of the State Board shall constitute the quorum.  (8)  The State Board may co- opt a member as and when required, provided that the number of co- opted members does not exceed one- third of the total strength of the State Board.  (9)  The co- opted members shall have the same powers and functions as other members, except the right to vote and shall abide by the rules and regulations.  (10)  In respect of matters not specified in this section, the State Board shall follow procedures and conditions as are applicable to the Board.".  

(v)

 (g)  an officer not below the rank of Joint Director in charge of Family Welfare, who shall be the Member Secretary, ex officio. (3)  The State Board shall meet at least once in four months.  (4)  The term of office of a member, other than an ex officio member, shall be three years.  (5)  If a vacancy occurs in the office of any member other than an ex officio member, it shall be filled by making fresh appointment.  (6)  If a member of the Legislative Assembly or member of the Legislative Council who is a member of the State Board, becomes Minister or Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly or Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson of the Legislative Council she shall cease to be a member of the State Board.  (7)  One- third of the total number of members of the State Board shall constitute the quorum.  (8)  The State Board may co- opt a member as and when required, provided that the number of co- opted members does not exceed one- third of the total strength of the State Board.  (9)  The co- opted members shall have the same powers and functions as other members, except the right to vote and shall abide by the rules and regulations.  (10)  In respect of matters not specified in this section, the State Board shall follow procedures and conditions as are applicable to the Board.". 

(g)

 (3)  The State Board shall meet at least once in four months.

(3)

 (4)  The term of office of a member, other than an ex officio member, shall be three years.

(4)

 (5)  If a vacancy occurs in the office of any member other than an ex officio member, it shall be filled by making fresh appointment.

(5)

 (6)  If a member of the Legislative Assembly or member of the Legislative Council who is a member of the State Board, becomes Minister or Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly or Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson of the Legislative Council she shall cease to be a member of the State Board.

(6)

 (7)  One- third of the total number of members of the State Board shall constitute the quorum.

(7)

 (8)  The State Board may co- opt a member as and when required, provided that the number of co- opted members does not exceed one- third of the total strength of the State Board.

(8)

 (9)  The co- opted members shall have the same powers and functions as other members, except the right to vote and shall abide by the rules and regulations.

(9)

 (10)  In respect of matters not specified in this section, the State Board shall follow procedures and conditions as are applicable to the Board.".

(10)

