Central Government Act

The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Act,   2003

























 1.  Short title and commencement.- (1)  This Act may be called the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Act,  2003 .  (2)  It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 7th day of November,  2003 . 

1.

 (1)  This Act may be called the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Act,  2003 .

(1)

 (2)  It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 7th day of November,  2003 .

(2)

 2.  Amendment of section 2.- In the Indian Medicine Central Council Act,  1970  (48 of  1970  ) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 2, after clause (e), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-' (ea)" medical college" means a college of Indian medicine, whether known as such or by any other name, in which a person may undergo a course of study or training including any post- graduate course of study or training which will qualify him for the award of a recognised medical qualification;'.

2.

 3.  Substitution of new Chapter for Chapter IIA.- For Chapter IIA of the principal Act, the following Chapter shall be substituted, namely:- CHAPTER IIA PERMISSION FOR NEW MEDICAL COLLEGE, COURSE, ETC.' CHAPTER IIA PERMISSION FOR NEW MEDICAL COLLEGE, COURSE, ETC.

3.

 13A.  Permission for establishment of new medical college, new course of study, etc.- (1)  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force,- (a)  no person shall establish a medical college; or  (b)  no medical college shall- (i)  open a new or higher course of study or training, including a post- graduate course of study or training, which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or  (ii)  increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training, except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this section," person" includes any University or a trust, but does not include the Central Government. Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this section," admission capacity", in relation to any course of study or training, including post- graduate course of study or training, in a medical college, means the maximum number of students as may be fixed by the Central Government from time to time for being admitted to such course or training. (2) Every person or medical college shall, for the purpose of obtaining permission under sub- section (1), submit to the Central Government a scheme in accordance with the provisions of sub- section (3) and the Central Government shall refer the scheme to the Central Council for its recommendations.    (3)  The scheme referred to in sub- section (2), shall be in such form and contain such particulars and be preferred in such manner and accompanied with such fee, as may be prescribed.  (4)  On receipt of a scheme from the Central Government under sub- section (2), the Central Council may obtain such other particulars as may be considered necessary by it from the person or the medical college concerned, and thereafter, it may,- (a)  if the scheme is defective and does not contain necessary particulars, give a reasonable opportunity to the person or medical college concerned for making a written representation and it shall be open to such person or medical college to rectify the defects, if any, specified by the Central Council;  (b)  consider the scheme, having regard to the factors referred to in sub- section (8) and submit it to the Central Government together with its recommendations thereon within a period not exceeding six months from the date of receipt of the reference from the Central Government.   (5)  The Central Government may, after considering the scheme and recommendations of the Central Council under sub- section (4) and after obtaining, where necessary, such other particulars as may be considered necessary by it from the person or medical college concerned and having regard to the factors referred to in sub- section (8), either approve the scheme with such conditions, if any, as it may consider necessary or disapprove the scheme and any such approval shall constitute as a permission under sub- section (1): Provided that no scheme shall be disapproved by the Central Government except after giving the person or medical college concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard: Provided further that nothing in this sub- section shall prevent any person or medical college whose scheme has not been approved by the Central Government to submit a fresh scheme and the provisions of this section shall apply to such scheme as if such scheme had been submitted for the first time under sub- section (2).  (6)  Where, within a period of one year from the date of submission of the scheme to the Central Government under sub- section (2), no order is communicated by the Central Government to the person or medical college submitting the scheme, such scheme shall be deemed to have been approved by the Central Government in the form in which it was submitted, and, accordingly, the permission of the Central Government required under sub- section (1) shall also be deemed to have been granted.  (7)  In computing the time- limit specified in sub- section (6), the time taken by the person or medical college concerned submitting the scheme, in furnishing any particulars called for by the Central Council, or by the Central Government, shall be excluded.  (8)  The Central Council while making its recommendations under clause (b) of sub- section (4) and the Central Government while passing an order, either approving or disapproving the scheme under sub- section (5), shall have due regard to the following factors, namely:- (a)  whether the proposed medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training, would be in a position to offer the minimum standards of medical education as prescribed by the Central Council under section 22;  (b)  whether the person seeking to establish a medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training or to increase its admission capacity has adequate financial resources;  (c)  whether necessary facilities in respect of staff, equipment, accommodation, training, hospital or other facilities to ensure proper functioning of the medical college or conducting the new course of study or training or accommodating the increased admission capacity have been provided or would be provided within the time- limit specified in the scheme;  (d)  whether adequate hospital facilities, having regard to the number of students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training or the increased admission capacity have been provided or would be provided within the time- limit specified in the scheme;  (e)  whether any arrangement has been made or programme drawn to impart proper training to students likely to attend such medical college or the course of study or training by persons having recognised medical qualifications;  (f)  the requirement of manpower in the field of practice of Indian medicine in the medical college;  (g)  any other factors as may be prescribed.   (9)  Where the Central Government passes an order either approving or disapproving a scheme under this section, a copy of the order shall be communicated to the person or medical college concerned. 

13A.

 (1)  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force,- (a)  no person shall establish a medical college; or  (b)  no medical college shall- (i)  open a new or higher course of study or training, including a post- graduate course of study or training, which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or  (ii)  increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training, except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this section," person" includes any University or a trust, but does not include the Central Government. Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this section," admission capacity", in relation to any course of study or training, including post- graduate course of study or training, in a medical college, means the maximum number of students as may be fixed by the Central Government from time to time for being admitted to such course or training. (2) Every person or medical college shall, for the purpose of obtaining permission under sub- section (1), submit to the Central Government a scheme in accordance with the provisions of sub- section (3) and the Central Government shall refer the scheme to the Central Council for its recommendations.  

(1)

 (a)  no person shall establish a medical college; or

(a)

 (b)  no medical college shall- (i)  open a new or higher course of study or training, including a post- graduate course of study or training, which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or  (ii)  increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training, except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this section," person" includes any University or a trust, but does not include the Central Government. Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this section," admission capacity", in relation to any course of study or training, including post- graduate course of study or training, in a medical college, means the maximum number of students as may be fixed by the Central Government from time to time for being admitted to such course or training. (2) Every person or medical college shall, for the purpose of obtaining permission under sub- section (1), submit to the Central Government a scheme in accordance with the provisions of sub- section (3) and the Central Government shall refer the scheme to the Central Council for its recommendations. 

(b)

 (i)  open a new or higher course of study or training, including a post- graduate course of study or training, which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or

(i)

 (ii)  increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training, except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this section," person" includes any University or a trust, but does not include the Central Government. Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this section," admission capacity", in relation to any course of study or training, including post- graduate course of study or training, in a medical college, means the maximum number of students as may be fixed by the Central Government from time to time for being admitted to such course or training. (2) Every person or medical college shall, for the purpose of obtaining permission under sub- section (1), submit to the Central Government a scheme in accordance with the provisions of sub- section (3) and the Central Government shall refer the scheme to the Central Council for its recommendations.

(ii)

 (3)  The scheme referred to in sub- section (2), shall be in such form and contain such particulars and be preferred in such manner and accompanied with such fee, as may be prescribed.

(3)

 (4)  On receipt of a scheme from the Central Government under sub- section (2), the Central Council may obtain such other particulars as may be considered necessary by it from the person or the medical college concerned, and thereafter, it may,- (a)  if the scheme is defective and does not contain necessary particulars, give a reasonable opportunity to the person or medical college concerned for making a written representation and it shall be open to such person or medical college to rectify the defects, if any, specified by the Central Council;  (b)  consider the scheme, having regard to the factors referred to in sub- section (8) and submit it to the Central Government together with its recommendations thereon within a period not exceeding six months from the date of receipt of the reference from the Central Government. 

(4)

 (a)  if the scheme is defective and does not contain necessary particulars, give a reasonable opportunity to the person or medical college concerned for making a written representation and it shall be open to such person or medical college to rectify the defects, if any, specified by the Central Council;

(a)

 (b)  consider the scheme, having regard to the factors referred to in sub- section (8) and submit it to the Central Government together with its recommendations thereon within a period not exceeding six months from the date of receipt of the reference from the Central Government.

(b)

 (5)  The Central Government may, after considering the scheme and recommendations of the Central Council under sub- section (4) and after obtaining, where necessary, such other particulars as may be considered necessary by it from the person or medical college concerned and having regard to the factors referred to in sub- section (8), either approve the scheme with such conditions, if any, as it may consider necessary or disapprove the scheme and any such approval shall constitute as a permission under sub- section (1): Provided that no scheme shall be disapproved by the Central Government except after giving the person or medical college concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard: Provided further that nothing in this sub- section shall prevent any person or medical college whose scheme has not been approved by the Central Government to submit a fresh scheme and the provisions of this section shall apply to such scheme as if such scheme had been submitted for the first time under sub- section (2).

(5)

 (6)  Where, within a period of one year from the date of submission of the scheme to the Central Government under sub- section (2), no order is communicated by the Central Government to the person or medical college submitting the scheme, such scheme shall be deemed to have been approved by the Central Government in the form in which it was submitted, and, accordingly, the permission of the Central Government required under sub- section (1) shall also be deemed to have been granted.

(6)

 (7)  In computing the time- limit specified in sub- section (6), the time taken by the person or medical college concerned submitting the scheme, in furnishing any particulars called for by the Central Council, or by the Central Government, shall be excluded.

(7)

 (8)  The Central Council while making its recommendations under clause (b) of sub- section (4) and the Central Government while passing an order, either approving or disapproving the scheme under sub- section (5), shall have due regard to the following factors, namely:- (a)  whether the proposed medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training, would be in a position to offer the minimum standards of medical education as prescribed by the Central Council under section 22;  (b)  whether the person seeking to establish a medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training or to increase its admission capacity has adequate financial resources;  (c)  whether necessary facilities in respect of staff, equipment, accommodation, training, hospital or other facilities to ensure proper functioning of the medical college or conducting the new course of study or training or accommodating the increased admission capacity have been provided or would be provided within the time- limit specified in the scheme;  (d)  whether adequate hospital facilities, having regard to the number of students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training or the increased admission capacity have been provided or would be provided within the time- limit specified in the scheme;  (e)  whether any arrangement has been made or programme drawn to impart proper training to students likely to attend such medical college or the course of study or training by persons having recognised medical qualifications;  (f)  the requirement of manpower in the field of practice of Indian medicine in the medical college;  (g)  any other factors as may be prescribed. 

(8)

 (a)  whether the proposed medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training, would be in a position to offer the minimum standards of medical education as prescribed by the Central Council under section 22;

(a)

 (b)  whether the person seeking to establish a medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training or to increase its admission capacity has adequate financial resources;

(b)

 (c)  whether necessary facilities in respect of staff, equipment, accommodation, training, hospital or other facilities to ensure proper functioning of the medical college or conducting the new course of study or training or accommodating the increased admission capacity have been provided or would be provided within the time- limit specified in the scheme;

(c)

 (d)  whether adequate hospital facilities, having regard to the number of students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training or the increased admission capacity have been provided or would be provided within the time- limit specified in the scheme;

(d)

 (e)  whether any arrangement has been made or programme drawn to impart proper training to students likely to attend such medical college or the course of study or training by persons having recognised medical qualifications;

(e)

 (f)  the requirement of manpower in the field of practice of Indian medicine in the medical college;

(f)

 (g)  any other factors as may be prescribed.

(g)

 (9)  Where the Central Government passes an order either approving or disapproving a scheme under this section, a copy of the order shall be communicated to the person or medical college concerned.

(9)

 13B.  Non- recognition of medical qualifications in certain cases.- (1)  Where any medical college is established without the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 13A, medical qualification granted to any student of such medical college shall not be deemed to be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of this Act.  (2)  Where any medical college opens a new or higher course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training without the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 13A, medical qualification granted to any student of such medical college on the basis of such study or training shall not be deemed to be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of this Act.  (3)  Where any medical college increases its admission capacity in any course of study or training without the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 13A, medical qualification granted to any student of such medical college on the basis of the increase in its admission capacity shall not be deemed to be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of this Act. 

13B.

 (1)  Where any medical college is established without the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 13A, medical qualification granted to any student of such medical college shall not be deemed to be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of this Act.

(1)

 (2)  Where any medical college opens a new or higher course of study or training including a post- graduate course of study or training without the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 13A, medical qualification granted to any student of such medical college on the basis of such study or training shall not be deemed to be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of this Act.

(2)

 (3)  Where any medical college increases its admission capacity in any course of study or training without the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 13A, medical qualification granted to any student of such medical college on the basis of the increase in its admission capacity shall not be deemed to be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of this Act.

(3)

 13C.  Time for seeking permission for certain existing medical colleges.- (1)  If any person has established a medical college or any medical college has opened a new or higher course of study or training or increased the admission capacity on or before the commencement of the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Act,  2003 , such person or medical college, as the case may be, shall seek, within a period of three years from the said commencement, permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 13A.  (2)  If any person or medical college, as the case may be, fails to seek permission under sub- section (1), the provisions of section 13B shall apply, so far as may be, as if permission of the Central Government under section 13A has been refused.'. 

13C.

 (1)  If any person has established a medical college or any medical college has opened a new or higher course of study or training or increased the admission capacity on or before the commencement of the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Act,  2003 , such person or medical college, as the case may be, shall seek, within a period of three years from the said commencement, permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 13A.

(1)

 (2)  If any person or medical college, as the case may be, fails to seek permission under sub- section (1), the provisions of section 13B shall apply, so far as may be, as if permission of the Central Government under section 13A has been refused.'.

(2)

 4.  Repeal and saving.- (1)  The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance,  2003  is hereby repealed.  (2)  Notwithstanding the repeal of the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance,  2003 , anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act, as amended by this Act. T. K. VISWANATHAN, Secy. to the Govt. of India. 

4.

 (1)  The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance,  2003  is hereby repealed.

(1)

 (2)  Notwithstanding the repeal of the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance,  2003 , anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act, as amended by this Act. T. K. VISWANATHAN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

(2)

