Central Government Act

The Railway Protection Force (Amendment) Act,   2003

























 1.  Short title and commencement.- (1)  This Act may be called the Railway Protection Force (Amendment) Act,  2003 .  (2)  It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint. 

1.

 (1)  This Act may be called the Railway Protection Force (Amendment) Act,  2003 .

(1)

 (2)  It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

(2)

 2.  Amendment of long title.- In the Railway Protection Force Act,  1957  (23 of  1957  ) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in the long title, for the words" railway property", the words" railway property, passenger area and passengers" shall be substituted.

2.

 3.  Amendment of section 2.- In section 2 of the principal Act, after clause (c), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:-' (ca)" passenger" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Railways Act,  1989  (24 of  1989  ); (cb) " passenger area" shall include railway platform, train, yard and such other area as is frequently visited by passengers;'. 

3.

 (cb) " passenger area" shall include railway platform, train, yard and such other area as is frequently visited by passengers;'.

(cb)

 4.  Substitution of new section for section 11.- For section 11 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- Duties of members of Force." 11. Duties of members of Force.- It shall be the duty of every superior officer and member of the Force- (a)  promptly to execute all orders lawfully issued to him by his superior authority;  (b)  to protect and safeguard railway property, passenger area and passengers;  (c)  to remove any obstruction in the movement of railway property or passenger area; and  (d)  to do any other act conducive to the better protection and security of railway property, passenger area and passengers.". 

4.

 (a)  promptly to execute all orders lawfully issued to him by his superior authority;

(a)

 (b)  to protect and safeguard railway property, passenger area and passengers;

(b)

 (c)  to remove any obstruction in the movement of railway property or passenger area; and

(c)

 (d)  to do any other act conducive to the better protection and security of railway property, passenger area and passengers.".

(d)

 5.  Amendment of section 12.- In section 12 of the principal Act, for the words" railway property" wherever they occur, the words" railway property, passenger area and passengers" shall be substituted.

5.

 6.  Amendment of section 14.- In section 14 of the principal Act, for the words" to a police officer", the words" to a police officer together with a detailed report of the circumstances leading to the arrest of such person" shall be substituted. T. K. VISWANATHAN, Secy. to the Govt. of India.

6.

